README.md, before:

# Project
w
## Technical Project Requirements

The minimum requirements for the project are outlined here to give you a starting point. Meeting the minimum requirements alone will not guarantee you a good mark. You are welcome to meet and exceed the minimum requirements if you have good, creative ideas and would like to discuss them with me.

**Requirement 1**: The project must incorporate some visual interface using Processing.org libraries. All user interaction must be conducted via this interface.

**Requirement 2**: The project must incorporate some kind of non-blocking concurrent/asynchronous processing that happens at regular intervals. For example, you might push or fetch data from in the background.

**Requirement 3**: The project must incorporate some kind of non-trivial persistent data state that must be read, processed, and written at regular intervals. For example, you might save a game state in a JSON file. This may or may not be included with Requirement 2.

**Requirement 4**: The project must incorporate some kind of self-managing custom iterable data structure. For example, you might have a collection of enemies that are added and deleted based on statistics maintained by the data structure.

**Requirement 5**: The project must be well-documented, complete, and run without errors on final submission.

## Project Pitch (group, 1%)

The project pitch will be a short document that describes the kind of interactive application you would like to create with your group. The project pitch must include the following items:

*One-liner*: One-sentence description of your project.
*Outline*: 1-10 sentences that describe how your project will fulfill the project requirements.
*Communication policies*: A description of how your group will meet, communicate, and make decisions (as per Lab 03).
*Roles and responsibilities*: A description of each team member's jobs in the group.
*Milestones*: A rough outline of the major project milestones that you expect to complete and your own estimated timeline. This can and will change, so do your best to estimate and plan for the milestones to change.

Draft was due today, final due next lab. Submission here, on GitHub. Make a `.md` file that outlines the above.

## Initial UML Diagrams (group, 1%)

The initial UML diagrams will outline the class structure that your group will follow for the first milestone of the project. It must include the following items all classes that will be created by the group and important descriptive interfaces from either the Java library or created by the group. I expect that this will change significantly throughout the project, so it does not have to be perfect but it should be a best effort attempt. This is because you will use this to communicate with your group members about what to make. Therefore, the diagram should be *sufficiently complex* to give you a term's worth of work.

Draft due next Lab, final due two labs from now. Submission here, on GitHub. Suggestion is to use a tool like [draw.io](https://app.diagrams.net/) but you may use whatever tool is most useful for you.

## Initial GitHub Issues (group, 1%)

The initial GitHub issues will be the tasks that are assigned to each of your group members at the beginning of the project. Every team member should have at least five issues to start (20-30 total). You will have to decide within your group how granular you want to make these issues. 

Issues will be tracked here, on GitHub.

## Final Project Demo (group, 1%)

The Final Project Demo will be a working version of your project that you will present to your lab section for review. The demo will be in lab, and will include a live demo of the working application, and a short code review. There are no slides required, but you should have practiced your demo to make sure it will run reasonably well. This will be during the last lab of class.

No submission.

## Final README.md (group, 1%)

The Final README.md must give instructions on how to run your program, a list of contributions by each member, and any references/citations for code you may have used from elsewhere. 

Submission is here, on GitHub, in the `README.md` file.

## Final Product (group, 5%)

The Final Product will be evaluated for overall code design and documentation and evaluated on the same design principles as individual contributions. If you are below the 1000 line minimum contribution, your mark will be scaled down for this portion.

Submission is here, on GitHub.

## Code Contributions (individual, 15%)

You will be expected to take on a significant individual contribution to the group project (at least 1000 lines of non-trivial code). It may be in a number of forms, but here are some examples:

**Architect**: you are in charge of the high-level code structuring and organizing.

**Test maker**: you are in charge of test coverage that supports other group members.

**UI/UX lead**: you design and implement the user interface.

**Backend**: you design and implement the data structures.

**…??**: Make up your own depending on your use case, i.e., collision system designer, animation architect, async code wrangler.

Contributions must be for functional, working Java code and must be continuous throughout the term. You may not, for example, push all of your changes at the end of term. Code will be marked on following good design principles, i.e., SOLID, design patterns, etc. You are encouraged to work together and use pair programming for components, but you will be marked on your contribution to your own modules individually.

## Documentation Contributions (individual, 5%)

Your code must be well-documented with fully-formed method signatures, comments, and necessary README or Wiki pages. This is further broken down into the following.

### Initial individual pitch (1%)
A description of your individual feature that you plan to implement. 

Due date TBD.

### Initial individual UML Diagrams (1%)
Any combination of sequence, communcation, or class diagrams that describe your feature's initial planned abilities. 

Due date TBD.

### Documentation contributions (3%)
Your personal feature documentation, wherever it happens to show up in the final documentation.

Due with final submission.

## Issues and Pull Request Contributions (individual, 5%)
You must track your own work in the form of creating and closing GitHub issues, creating and reviewing pull requests, responding to issues that have been assigned to you, and creating issues that you assign to others (all within reason).

# Errata
The project MUST be managed here, in this GitHub repo. Nothing that happens outside of this GitHub repo will be trackable by me, therefore, it will not be marked or considered for marking.

You must use the following branching structures:
- `main` branch must always be working, tested, debugged, human-readable code.
- `<initals>_<issue #>_<optional description>` is the format for each ISSUE that you're working on. It should always be a branch off of `main`.
- Every individual branch must regularly merge `main`, and it should be no more than a few days before your branch is either merged into `main` or deleted.

You must use pull requests to manage your code integration:
- make your branch from `main`, e.g., `git checkout -b pb_71_demo`
- make your commits, e.g., `git add .` and `git commit -m "fixed issue 71 by reloading gradle for the 100th time"` and `git push origin pb_71_demo`.
- merge `main` into your branch, and NOT the other way around. E.g., `git merge main`. YOU fix all the merge conflicts or problems that arise. Commit and push again.
- go to GitHub.com and make a pull request
- one other person (NOT YOU) needs to review the code and either approve or reject your changes with detailed line-by-line comments.
- If needed, make the requested fixes and commit and push again.
- the other person (NOT YOU) will merge your PR into `main`
- the other person (NOT YOU) will delete your branch

# How To Play

### 1. Open the game
The game can be opened by running the `Window.java` file in the `src` folder.
Select the `Window` class and click the green play button.

### 2. Main Menu Screen
The main menu screen will appear. Click on the "New Game" button to start the game.

If you have played the game before, you can click on the "Continue" button to load your previous game.

Online button to play the game online with other players.

Settings button to change the game settings.

Exit button to close the game.

### 3. Choose the game settings
Choose the size of the board. Each number represents a single tile increasing the board size.

Choose the number of players. The maximum number of players is 4.

Once the settings are chosen, click on the "Start" button to start the game.

### 4. Game Screen Hub
**Top Left**: Menu button giving options.

**Top Right**: End turn button.

**Bottom Left**: A picture of your currently selected unit.

**Bottom Right**: Buttons for units you can build.

**Left Side**: Your selected units stats.

  ***1.*** Gathered materials.

  ***2.*** Unit health.

  ***3.*** Unit attack damage.

  ***4.*** Unit attack range.

  ***5.*** Unit movement range.

  ***6.*** Unit cost.

**Right Side**: Keybinds.

**Center Top**: Current players turn.

### 5. Units
#### 1. Worker
Workers are used to gather materials from the map. They can gather materials from any tile on the map except sand.
#### 2. Soldier
Soldiers are used to attack other units. They can attack any unit within their attack range.
#### 3. Building
Buildings are used to build other units.

### 6. How to win
The game ends when one player has no more units left. The player with the most units left wins the game.

### 7. How to quit the game
You can quit the game by clicking on the "Exit" button in the menu screen.

# Contributors
### 1. Cameron Walford


### 2. Keagan Purtell
I worked on most of the core gameplay for our. This includes creating the logic behind each type of entity.
I worked on the ability to create new Entities, select them, move them, build other entities with them, collect 
resources with them and attack with Soldiers. I also created the logic behind the map generation. My personal part
of the project was creating an enemy AI that could play against the player. Unfortunately, I have been unable to make
this code fully work.

### 3. Emma Merideth-Black
I worked on the logic for the User Interface, as well as designing the main menu. I created a clickable
class that runs when clicked, and from there developed easy to use methods that allowed for easy
creation of UI elements that are fully interactive, as well as being easily customizable, in order to
make development of the UI as easy as possible. I also designed the main menu, creating logic for
the buttons, and creating the images and text that are displayed on the screen, as well as previewing
map creation. The particular classes I worked in were Clickable, ClickableManager, Button, ButtonManager, 
Various Menu state classes, and the Window Class. Also, please note, due to weird git issues, my commits
are spread across the Testsnake and emmamb accounts.

### 4. Brendan Doyle
I worked on the UI that you see while playing the game. Gathering the spites and images needed for
the different panels, icons, units, backgrounds. Positioning the panels and buttons in the correct
places and loading order. I also worked on the code that allows the user to select a unit and
display the stats of that unit, the image loading for the selected unit and the many buttons 
associated with it. The in game menu that appears when you select the menu button was also my 
work. It was designed to use lambda to redirect the player to different game states.
The particular classes I worked in were Hud, HudState, InGameHud and Menuhidstate.

Commit message:

Updated readme with my contributions and info about online multiplayer

README.md, after:

# Project
w
## Technical Project Requirements

The minimum requirements for the project are outlined here to give you a starting point. Meeting the minimum requirements alone will not guarantee you a good mark. You are welcome to meet and exceed the minimum requirements if you have good, creative ideas and would like to discuss them with me.

**Requirement 1**: The project must incorporate some visual interface using Processing.org libraries. All user interaction must be conducted via this interface.

**Requirement 2**: The project must incorporate some kind of non-blocking concurrent/asynchronous processing that happens at regular intervals. For example, you might push or fetch data from in the background.

**Requirement 3**: The project must incorporate some kind of non-trivial persistent data state that must be read, processed, and written at regular intervals. For example, you might save a game state in a JSON file. This may or may not be included with Requirement 2.

**Requirement 4**: The project must incorporate some kind of self-managing custom iterable data structure. For example, you might have a collection of enemies that are added and deleted based on statistics maintained by the data structure.

**Requirement 5**: The project must be well-documented, complete, and run without errors on final submission.

## Project Pitch (group, 1%)

The project pitch will be a short document that describes the kind of interactive application you would like to create with your group. The project pitch must include the following items:

*One-liner*: One-sentence description of your project.
*Outline*: 1-10 sentences that describe how your project will fulfill the project requirements.
*Communication policies*: A description of how your group will meet, communicate, and make decisions (as per Lab 03).
*Roles and responsibilities*: A description of each team member's jobs in the group.
*Milestones*: A rough outline of the major project milestones that you expect to complete and your own estimated timeline. This can and will change, so do your best to estimate and plan for the milestones to change.

Draft was due today, final due next lab. Submission here, on GitHub. Make a `.md` file that outlines the above.

## Initial UML Diagrams (group, 1%)

The initial UML diagrams will outline the class structure that your group will follow for the first milestone of the project. It must include the following items all classes that will be created by the group and important descriptive interfaces from either the Java library or created by the group. I expect that this will change significantly throughout the project, so it does not have to be perfect but it should be a best effort attempt. This is because you will use this to communicate with your group members about what to make. Therefore, the diagram should be *sufficiently complex* to give you a term's worth of work.

Draft due next Lab, final due two labs from now. Submission here, on GitHub. Suggestion is to use a tool like [draw.io](https://app.diagrams.net/) but you may use whatever tool is most useful for you.

## Initial GitHub Issues (group, 1%)

The initial GitHub issues will be the tasks that are assigned to each of your group members at the beginning of the project. Every team member should have at least five issues to start (20-30 total). You will have to decide within your group how granular you want to make these issues. 

Issues will be tracked here, on GitHub.

## Final Project Demo (group, 1%)

The Final Project Demo will be a working version of your project that you will present to your lab section for review. The demo will be in lab, and will include a live demo of the working application, and a short code review. There are no slides required, but you should have practiced your demo to make sure it will run reasonably well. This will be during the last lab of class.

No submission.

## Final README.md (group, 1%)

The Final README.md must give instructions on how to run your program, a list of contributions by each member, and any references/citations for code you may have used from elsewhere. 

Submission is here, on GitHub, in the `README.md` file.

## Final Product (group, 5%)

The Final Product will be evaluated for overall code design and documentation and evaluated on the same design principles as individual contributions. If you are below the 1000 line minimum contribution, your mark will be scaled down for this portion.

Submission is here, on GitHub.

## Code Contributions (individual, 15%)

You will be expected to take on a significant individual contribution to the group project (at least 1000 lines of non-trivial code). It may be in a number of forms, but here are some examples:

**Architect**: you are in charge of the high-level code structuring and organizing.

**Test maker**: you are in charge of test coverage that supports other group members.

**UI/UX lead**: you design and implement the user interface.

**Backend**: you design and implement the data structures.

**…??**: Make up your own depending on your use case, i.e., collision system designer, animation architect, async code wrangler.

Contributions must be for functional, working Java code and must be continuous throughout the term. You may not, for example, push all of your changes at the end of term. Code will be marked on following good design principles, i.e., SOLID, design patterns, etc. You are encouraged to work together and use pair programming for components, but you will be marked on your contribution to your own modules individually.

## Documentation Contributions (individual, 5%)

Your code must be well-documented with fully-formed method signatures, comments, and necessary README or Wiki pages. This is further broken down into the following.

### Initial individual pitch (1%)
A description of your individual feature that you plan to implement. 

Due date TBD.

### Initial individual UML Diagrams (1%)
Any combination of sequence, communcation, or class diagrams that describe your feature's initial planned abilities. 

Due date TBD.

### Documentation contributions (3%)
Your personal feature documentation, wherever it happens to show up in the final documentation.

Due with final submission.

## Issues and Pull Request Contributions (individual, 5%)
You must track your own work in the form of creating and closing GitHub issues, creating and reviewing pull requests, responding to issues that have been assigned to you, and creating issues that you assign to others (all within reason).

# Errata
The project MUST be managed here, in this GitHub repo. Nothing that happens outside of this GitHub repo will be trackable by me, therefore, it will not be marked or considered for marking.

You must use the following branching structures:
- `main` branch must always be working, tested, debugged, human-readable code.
- `<initals>_<issue #>_<optional description>` is the format for each ISSUE that you're working on. It should always be a branch off of `main`.
- Every individual branch must regularly merge `main`, and it should be no more than a few days before your branch is either merged into `main` or deleted.

You must use pull requests to manage your code integration:
- make your branch from `main`, e.g., `git checkout -b pb_71_demo`
- make your commits, e.g., `git add .` and `git commit -m "fixed issue 71 by reloading gradle for the 100th time"` and `git push origin pb_71_demo`.
- merge `main` into your branch, and NOT the other way around. E.g., `git merge main`. YOU fix all the merge conflicts or problems that arise. Commit and push again.
- go to GitHub.com and make a pull request
- one other person (NOT YOU) needs to review the code and either approve or reject your changes with detailed line-by-line comments.
- If needed, make the requested fixes and commit and push again.
- the other person (NOT YOU) will merge your PR into `main`
- the other person (NOT YOU) will delete your branch

# How To Play

### 1. Open the game
The game can be opened by running the `Window.java` file in the `src` folder.
Select the `Window` class and click the green play button.

### 2. Main Menu Screen
The main menu screen will appear. Click on the "New Game" button to start the game.

If you have played the game before, you can click on the "Continue" button to load your previous game.

Online button to play the game online with other players. This currently only works with players on the same Wifi network.

Settings button to change the game settings.

Exit button to close the game.

### 2.5. Online menu
If you chose online in the main menu, you are prompted to either Host Game or Join Game.

### 3a. Choose the game settings (new game or host game)
Choose the size of the board. Each number represents a single tile increasing the board size.

Choose the number of players. The maximum number of players is 4.

Once the settings are chosen, click on the "Start" button to start the game (or server if hosting).

### 3b. Join a game (online clicked in main menu)
Input the IP of the server host, and a username.

You must then wait until all other players have connected before the game will start.

### 4. Game Screen Hub
**Top Left**: Menu button giving options.

**Top Right**: End turn button.

**Bottom Left**: A picture of your currently selected unit.

**Bottom Right**: Buttons for units you can build.

**Left Side**: Your selected units stats.

  ***1.*** Gathered materials.

  ***2.*** Unit health.

  ***3.*** Unit attack damage.

  ***4.*** Unit attack range.

  ***5.*** Unit movement range.

  ***6.*** Unit cost.

**Right Side**: Keybinds.

**Center Top**: Current players turn.

### 5. Units
#### 1. Worker
Workers are used to gather materials from the map. They can gather materials from any tile on the map except sand.
#### 2. Soldier
Soldiers are used to attack other units. They can attack any unit within their attack range.
#### 3. Building
Buildings are used to build other units.

### 6. How to win
The game ends when one player has no more units left. The player with the most units left wins the game.

### 7. How to quit the game
You can quit the game by clicking on the "Exit" button in the menu screen.

# Contributors
### 1. Cameron Walford
I worked on the saving/loading of the game, the menu and all of the menu states, and the game server, along
with other miscellaneous code throughout the project.

Saving/Loading: I made functions toJSONObject and fromJSONObject in all of the relevant GameState classes,
and these are all called in GameState's own respective JSONObject functions. This provided a convenient way
to serialize the entire gamestate so it could be saved to a .json file or sent back and forth from client
and server.

Menu: I worked on a series of MenuStates that the Menu object held by Window could be set to. This was meant to be
a fairly modular way to work with the menu, so that it would be easy to add new states as time went on.

Game Server: This is a server that works only if you're on the same wifi network as the host. It uses multithreading
to handle each client connected. When a the current player ends their turn, the server updates its own gameState and
broadcasts the updated gameState to all other clients.

### 2. Keagan Purtell
I worked on most of the core gameplay for our. This includes creating the logic behind each type of entity.
I worked on the ability to create new Entities, select them, move them, build other entities with them, collect 
resources with them and attack with Soldiers. I also created the logic behind the map generation. My personal part
of the project was creating an enemy AI that could play against the player. Unfortunately, I have been unable to make
this code fully work.

### 3. Emma Merideth-Black
I worked on the logic for the User Interface, as well as designing the main menu. I created a clickable
class that runs when clicked, and from there developed easy to use methods that allowed for easy
creation of UI elements that are fully interactive, as well as being easily customizable, in order to
make development of the UI as easy as possible. I also designed the main menu, creating logic for
the buttons, and creating the images and text that are displayed on the screen, as well as previewing
map creation. The particular classes I worked in were Clickable, ClickableManager, Button, ButtonManager, 
Various Menu state classes, and the Window Class. Also, please note, due to weird git issues, my commits
are spread across the Testsnake and emmamb accounts.

### 4. Brendan Doyle
I worked on the UI that you see while playing the game. Gathering the spites and images needed for
the different panels, icons, units, backgrounds. Positioning the panels and buttons in the correct
places and loading order. I also worked on the code that allows the user to select a unit and
display the stats of that unit, the image loading for the selected unit and the many buttons 
associated with it. The in game menu that appears when you select the menu button was also my 
work. It was designed to use lambda to redirect the player to different game states.
The particular classes I worked in were Hud, HudState, InGameHud and Menuhidstate.
